.\" ASTRAL(1) Manual Page
.TH ASTRAL 1 "Astaraxia Project" "Astral Package Manager" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
astral \- hybrid source/binary package manager for the Astaraxia Linux distribution

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B astral
[\-s|\-c|\-r|\-R|\-y] [package]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Astral
is the planned package manager for the Astaraxia Linux distribution.
It provides a unified interface for installing, removing, inspecting,
and building software packages, either from prebuilt binaries or 
directly from source using transparent build recipes.

This tool is not yet implemented.  
All functionality described in this manual represents the intended
design for the future Astaraxia package manager.

.SH MODES

.TP
.BR \-s " package"
Install a package from the binary repository.
Downloads a prebuilt package if available and installs it along with all required dependencies.

.TP
.BR \-c " package"
Compile and install a package from source.
Fetches the source archive, applies the recipe-defined patches,
and builds the package according to the recipe instructions.

.TP
.BR \-r " package"
Remove a package and any dependencies that are no longer required.

.TP
.BR \-R " package"
Remove only the specified package, leaving dependencies in place.

.TP
.BR \-y
Upgrade all installed packages.
Performs a full system update using binary packages or source builds
depending on the global configuration.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Astral reads configuration options from:

.PP
.I /etc/astral/config

.PP
The configuration file controls:
.IP \(bu 2
default installation mode (binary or source)  
.IP \(bu 2
compiler flags (CFLAGS, CXXFLAGS, LDFLAGS)  
.IP \(bu 2
parallel build settings  
.IP \(bu 2
repository URLs (official + user-defined)  
.IP \(bu 2
optional dependency toggles  
.IP \(bu 2
cache locations for source and binary artifacts  
.IP \(bu 2
init system preference  

A sample configuration file will be shipped once the tool is implemented.

.SH RECIPE FORMAT
Package recipes are stored under:

.PP
.I /usr/src/astral/recipes/

.PP
Each recipe directory contains:
.IP \(bu 2
metadata (name, version, license, homepage)  
.IP \(bu 2
source URL and hash  
.IP \(bu 2
dependency list  
.IP \(bu 2
build instructions  
.IP \(bu 2
optional feature toggles  
.IP \(bu 2
installation steps  

Recipe syntax and guidelines will be defined with the first package set.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/astral/config
Main configuration file.

.TP
.I /var/cache/astral/src/
Cached source archives.

.TP
.I /var/cache/astral/bin/
Cached binary packages.

.TP
.I /var/lib/astral/db/
Installed package metadata.

.TP
.I /var/log/astral/
Build and installation logs.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Astral will return 0 on success and non-zero on error.

.SH SEE ALSO
lfs(7), make(1), pkgbuild(5), emerge(1), xbps-src(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Astaraxia Project

.SH NOTES
Astral is currently a conceptual tool.
This manual page describes intended functionality, not an existing implementation.

